In this lecture, you'll learn about firewalls, intrusion detection systems and IP intrusion prevention
systems, so I'll tell you about the characteristics of each.
The differences between them and how they best work together to provide security for an organization.
So starting off with the IDs on the IPS, ID stands for intrusion detection system and IPS is an intrusion
prevention system.
The IDF, or IPS, uses signatures to inspect pockets up to layer seven of US iStock looking for traffic
patterns which match new wing attacks.
We can also use anomaly based inspection to look for unusual behavior such as the host, which is sending
a lot more traffic than usual.
That would indicate that it has been infected by a worm.
So your IDs and IPS actually are quite similar to the antivirus software that you'll find on your Peachy.
And they use signatures to look for Nouwen attacks.
They can also use heuristics to look for characteristics which would indicate an attack to something
out of the normal or something which looks similar to another NGUON attack.
The IDF and IPS require skilled staff to tune them to their own particular environment and minimise
false positives and false negatives.
A false positive is when the IPS triggers because it thinks there's been an attack when actually that
was legitimate traffic and a false negative is worse, but is when there is an attack.
The IPS does not recognize it and does not trigger your ideas in your IPS.
They do need tuning because each separate environment has got its own separate traffic patterns to something
that might be in your organization would maybe indicate an attack and a different organization.
So it does take some time to tune the IPS when you first install it to tune out to fill or Ibos false
positives and false negatives.
And as things can change in your network over time, it requires the IPS to be updated to reflect that.
The difference between an idea and an IPS, an idea, an intrusion detection system sits alongside the
traffic flow and informs security administrators of any potential concerns, anything that looks like
an attack, an IPS, an intrusion prevention system.
So it's in line with the traffic flow and it can also block attacks as well as new.
If I knew about them and I'd ask may also have the capability to tell a firewall to block attacks if
the firewall was in line with the traffic flow.
But the IDF is not.
Obviously, you would need to have an I.D. and a firewall which are compatible to be able to do that.
The Cisco Ideas and Firewall can do that.
OK, so here's a diagram showing the difference between the IPS and the ideas, and you can see we've
got the IPS on the top here it is in line with the traffic flow to the traffic flows going through it.
So if it detects an attack, it can stop.
It can block traffic.
An idea, on the other hand, is off to the side of the traffic flow.
So here we're going to be using mirroring to send a copy of the traffic to the IDF because with traffic
is actually going through a different path.
We're just sending a copy to the IDF.
The IDF itself cannot drop the traffic in line.
But if it was a firewall here and it was a compatible firewall, the IDF could send a message to the
firewall telling the firewall to do it.
The reason that we have the two different options here is that an IPS can sometimes be a bottleneck.
If there's not enough throughput on the eyepiece to handle the amount of traffic going through it.
You don't want it to slow down the network traffic.
You could use an IDF instead.
In that situation, there are other things we can do to help with that, such as clustering as well.
I'll talk about Costarring a little bit later on.
OK, about was the idea and the IPSC comparing them with Firewall's now John IPPs and an use the signatures
to inspect pockets up are seven iStock looking for traffic patterns which match Nunatak.
So IPPs uses signatures, firewalls, block or permit traffic based on rules such as destination IP
address and part number two, an ipsus of signatures.
A firewall uses rules.
Organizations will always deploy firewalls on their Internet age, there's no way an organization would
connect to the Internet without having a firewall there to protect themselves.
They may also deploy firewalls at security points inside their internal network.
So for sure, they'll have a firewall between them and the Internet.
They may also have a part of their network which has got sensitive servers there.
Maybe we would have another separate firewall there.
Also as well, eyepieces are typically seen as an option to where firewalls are in danger.
You're always going to have a firewall between you and the Internet.
Ipsus are traditionally seen as optional rather than they may be deployed in conjunction with your firewalls.
Now, the lines have blurred in recent years between IPS and firewalls, so the things they do are separate,
but you can now get All-In-One devices, you get firewalls which have also got IP capability built into
them as well.
And that is becoming particularly prevalent since the emergence of Next-Generation Firewalls.
So modern firewalls do also often have IP capability as well as the firewall capability.
They're also often capable of acting as the endpoint of VPN term tunnels as well.
I'll talk about VPN tunnels.
We are in the section.
So organizations have a choice they can deploy and all in one solution with a firewall, which also
has IP capability, or they might split those functions to provide better scalability, specialized
devices to separate firewall and IPS may also have more advanced features than would be available within
Allwyn.
One solution, another option for scalability and higher throughput is clustered devices.
She saw in the diagram earlier.
I had inline IPS and so that it's possible that it could become a bottleneck if it doesn't support enough
for the amount of traffic going through it.
Well, a solution that will often resolve the issue is by putting in multiple hardware devices there
and sending the traffic through those multiple hardware devices.
If the devices support clustering, then the act as a single solution for management and also for all
of her features as well.
But because you've got multiple devices there, they now support higher throughput and it also gives
you redundancy in case one of them fails as well.
OK, let's wrap up this picture with a look at an example.
Network topology showing how firewalls and ISPs can work together to in the example network here, we've
got a couple of departments on the inside department and department be very connected into a layer free
switch, and then it's connected to the inside interface on the firewall.
The outside interface on firewall is connected out to the Internet.
We also have a DMZ here that's a demilitarized zone where we're going to put our sensitive internal
servers there by having the servers in a DMZ rather than on the inside.
That allows us to have a more suitable policy, separate policies for our servers and for our normal
internal hosts.
So you can see here we've also got an IPS as well, which is protecting those internal servers.
Now, some things to say here.
If this firewall was an all in one solution, Next-Generation Firewall, which also had IP capabilities
such as the Cisco AC with firepower, then we wouldn't need to have a separate IP here.
And that would also protect the inside hosts as well as the internal servers.
Right now, if this firewall is just fulfilling the firewall duties, it doesn't have any IP features
on there.
And we've got the IP down here.
Well, right now the IP is just protecting our internal servers.
We don't have an IP protecting the internal hooks.
Depending on your particular situation and environment that might be acceptable, she can see is just
an example of one way that you could do it.
You're always going to have a firewall protecting yourself from the Internet and IP is typically seen
as optional.
The IP ash can be a separate device or it can be built into the firewall.
OK, that's everything that I needed to tell you here.
In the next lecture, we'll have a look at how firewalls work in some more detail and also compare them
to packet filters.